## The Scaling Ball Game in smaller groups {#TheScalingBallPointGameSmall}

Although the scaling ball point game is created to play with groups of +20, we have have experiments with smaller groups. In the paragraph we will explain how you can experience some of the scaling with just a small group. 


We have played the scaling version with groups as little as 6 people.

Even with such a small group, you can make them feel some of the challenges of scaling.

One of the core aspects to do that, is to also play with different color balls.

The team starts with one color ball, just like the ball point game.
You let them play for one or two iterations. You write down their best score.

Then you ask them to also start taking on another color balls. This time it’s another player who starts with this new color ball and who also is the last to receive this ball before it goes into the “acceptance bucket”.

When they start with this, the attendees will need to reorganise themselves and find other ways to deliver balls.

After one or two iterations, you add another rule: 
*balls only count in pairs*. Rendering seven red and five blue balls, into five ballpoints. 

This means they have to make sure that both colors are in sync.  

In further rounds you can ask the team to add more colors and color-owners. 

Another exercise is to let them play with a number of colored balls. In the second round you can introduce yet another color: *a bug* (they are sometimes tricky to spot). You'd want to hand it to a team member that is not already responsible for a color. From now on, She is the head of a bug-response-team and has to accept the bugs when they are delivered during the rounds. 


Another exercise that also works well with small teams is to put a big object in the center of the team. A coat rack will do just fine. 

The idea behind it, is that half of the team is offshore. 
You can organise it, so that with 2 balls, one of the owners is on one side and the other side. Which means that the receiving bucket will be on only one side. So one of the owners will need to be creative on how to deliver the ball. 

